Welcome to [Greenwich Village](http://greenwichvillage.nyc) in the 1930s, where the monthly rent of an apartment averages around $34 (the equivalent of about $600 in 2017), where you can find tenements and rooming houses within blocks of the some of the city's most expensive hotels and houses. Here, art and culture flourishes. Among the urban thoroughfares sits a quaint, relaxed oasis that will become the stomping grounds of some of the country's most mythologized figures.

It is here, on Charles Street, where Tess Slesinger places two of her main characters, Margaret and Miles Flinders. It is also here where Slesinger spent much of the '30s.

The daughter of Hungarian-Russian Jewish immigrants, Slesinger grew up in New York City’s Upper West Side during the first couple decades of the 20th century. She attended the Ethical Culture Society School and then later went on to Swarthmore College, and then to Columbia School of Journalism, where she received a B.A. in English in 1925. It was there that she met Herbert Solow, who she went on to marry in 1928. Solow, along with Columbia professor Elliot Cohen, became founders and editors of left-wing cultural magazine, the Menorah Journal. While writing book reviews for the Journal, Slesinger moved in this circle of Intellectuals, which included such figures as Lionel Trilling, Diana Trilling, and Sidney Hook.

Slesinger’s first publication came in 1932, the year she and Solow divorced, and was printed in Story magazine . It was a short story titled Missis Flinders’, a raw tale of a young woman’s decision to have an abortion at the behest of her husband. Later, this piece of short fiction would become the last chapter in her successful 1934 novel, The Unpossessed. This novel, a portrait of a generation with ideals larger than themselves, was largely based on Slesinger’s own experiences within the intellectual circle and was dedicated, perhaps a bit sourly, “to my contemporaries”. These contemporaries populate the novel as stereotypical caricatures of their counterparts. Jeffrey Blake, a novelist and womanizer sleeps with Comrade Fisher, because “she had loved two revolutionists and their blood must pass through her to him”(). Miles Flinders, a New Englander from a Puritan background, is immobile in the face of emotion and later the possibility of fatherhood. Dr. Bruno Leonard, indecisive over his relationship with his cousin, Elizabeth as well as the magazine the group intends to start. The characters, writes Robert M. Adams in a 1966 review of the novel, ‘neither deepen nor change no influence one another, but run automatically through their predetermined cycles’().

Greenwich Village, and the city of New York by extension, just happens to be the setting of all this intellectual milieu. However, as New York Review of Books founder Elizabeth Hardwick writes in her introduction to a 2002 edition of The Unpossessed, “The inchoate, irrational, addictive metropolis, ever clamoring, brawling between its two somehow sluggish rivers, is a challenge to its citizens and to the novelist’s art” (). So, maybe nothing on the surface really has to do with New York… but in a greater sense, everything has to do with New York, just by virtue of it being there.

If New York City is “a nest of enclaves in the surrounding smother” () as Hardwick writes, Greenwich Village is home to some of the most isolated of these enclaves. Originally a little country hamlet, long before the city had expanded its reaches upward, the Village was spared from the grid pattern of the rest of Manhattan. The twisting, somewhat confusing 18th century street pattern is at once peaceful and disorienting. It is utterly unintuitive, for example, to someone used to the usual grid, that West 4th Street and West 12th Streets intersect, when it seems that they ought to be parallel instead.
Perhaps it is because of this unfamiliarity and seclusion that many of the city’s cultural movements began here. Is it just, as some might say, the magic of the Village? Or does the geography simply lend itself to the cultivation of ideas?

Maybe. Another question we might ask, and it is one that Tess Slesinger asked as well, is that even if it does lend itself to these intellectual and creative emergences, is it a neighborhood that aids in the spreading of these ideas? Or does it, in fact, hinder them?

As she writes in the opening chapter of her novel, ‘[is] there progress? [is] there change?’

Click through the map below to explore Tess Slesinger’s Greenwich Village and learn more about the world of The Unpossessed.
